Use identity and endpoint_id to index clients in message structs (#491)
mlswg/mls-protocol: draft-ietf-mls-protocol.md

    (255)
} SenderType;

struct {
    uint8 KeyPackageID<0..255>;

> } MemberId

Author: Sounds like a good approach. I'll also note, that while we use a KeyPackage hash to identify members, these hashes change when the key package is updated, whereas the identity of the member does not. This could lead to errors, for example, when processing a `remove` right after an `update` for the same member was processed. I'm not entirely sure that's actually possible, but maybe you understand my concern. I don't want people to thing that KeyPackage hashes are static mappings to members.

> } MemberId

Reviewer: Good point.  And to make it worse, we have the following:

> Update proposals are applied first, followed by Remove proposals

Maybe we should just declare that a single Commit containing an Update and a Remove for the same leaf is invalid.

> } MemberId

Author: That would make sense, since updating and then immediately removing is rather pointless. Alternatively, we could make the KeyPackageID relative to the tree of the last epoch.

> } MemberId

Author: > In any case, I don't think this extra layer of `struct` wrapping is needed.

The advantage of keeping the struct layer is that the type is more expressive. If we don't have the struct, we end up with, for example, 

```
~~~~~
struct {
     opaque removed<0..255>;
} Remove;
~~~~~
```
without any indication what `removed` actually is.

    (255)
} SenderType;

struct {
    opaque sender_identity;
    opaque sender_endpoint_id;

> } Client

Reviewer: The bloat induced by this makes me pretty sad, and relying on just these two fields seems a little brittle.

As an alternative, what about using a hash of the leaf KeyPackage?:
* We only care about exact equality of these things, so we could use a hash of these values.  That also has the benefit of revealing less information on the wire.
* We only care about populated leaves, which contain a KeyPackage
* We already need `KeyPackage.hash()` for purposes of building/processing Welcome messages

That would get you down to the more compact:

```
uint8 KeyPackageID<0..255>;
```

I would be slightly happier if it were a fixed-length value and shorter than a hash output.  It's tempting to propose truncating the hash down to 128 bits, which seems unlikely to result in collisions in any practical scenario.  If it is fixed-length, you could have a nice compact value:

```
uint8 KeyPackageID[16];
```

Reviewer: Note also that if we make a smaller-than-hash-KeyPackage-ID thing here, we should also use it in Welcome.

Author: I like the idea, although I'm always a bit skeptical when it comes to shortening hashes. In this case it doesn't serve much of a security purpose, but I'd still prefer the full hash.

Author: Any suggestions for a name, though? The KeyPackage hash does not really represent the client anymore, but rather the client's presence in this particular group.

Reviewer: I kind of like `KeyPackageID`, as above.

struct {
    SenderType sender_type;

>     Client sender;

Reviewer: I don't think this quite works.  Remember that we have multiple sender types to accommodate: `member`, `preconfigured`, and `new_member`.  This covers the `member` case.  We should probably have a switch/variant struct here (probably always should have).

```
struct {
    SenderType sender_type;
    switch (sender_type) {
        case member:        Client client;
        case preconfigured: opaque key_id<0..255>;
        case new_member:    struct{};
    }
} Sender;
```

Reviewer: Note that you can still use `Client` in MLSSenderData, because that always corresponds to the `member` case.

Author: Good point! I'll change it as suggested.

} MLSSenderDataAAD;
~~~~~

When parsing a SenderData struct as part of message decryption, the recipient

> MUST verify that the `Client` populating the `sender` field is a member of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST verify that the `Client` indicated in the `sender` field is a member of the
```

The full tree can be included via the `ratchet_tree` extension
{{ratchet-tree-extension}}.

The signature MUST verify using the public key taken from the credential of the
`signer`. The signature covers the following structure, comprising all the

> fields in the PublicGroupState above `signer`:

Reviewer: I actually think the old wording is clearer.  In general, I would still talk about these `Client` values as indices, since you need to look up leaves in the tree to get credentials, signature keys, etc.

      public key in the node.

    * If the `path_secret` value is set in the GroupSecrets object: Identify the

>       lowest common ancestor of the leaf node index `index` and at the leaf

Reviewer 2: This re-introduces leaf node indices.
